If you've downloaded the route planning project for repo or if you
are reading through the code on GitHub or in the virtual desktop,
you should see the following files on folders at the top level of the repo.
At the top of the repo is a CMake folder.
This contains a couple of files that help CMake find the required libraries.
These files are provided by those libraries to be included in any CMake project.
So you don't really need to worry about them.
Next, you should see the source directory
which is where you'll be doing most of your work.
This is the contents of the source directory and we'll be exploring each of
these files or most of these files in detail later on.
You should see two other directories after CMake and Source,
which are the test and third-party directories.
The test directory contains a file,
utest rp a star search.
This stands for unit test route planner a star search.
If you click on that file,
you will see all of the unit tests for the project.
These tests are implemented with Google Test,
which is the testing framework provided by Google.
There are tests here for many of the functions that you will be implementing.
The route planner test class which is right here is on line 42,
is what is called a test fixture.
It sets up a data configuration that will be used across multiple tests.
As you can see in this fixture,
it reads the map data into the program.
I'm using read OSM data,
and creates a route model,
then creates a route planner with the starting co-ordinates 10, 10, 90, 90.
This read OSM data is defined above and read OSM data calls readFile,
which is defined above that.
There are a few other variables that are set up for testing including a start node,
end node, and a mid node in the path.
Functions marked with test f are the actual tests.
These tests all use the route planner test fixture which is defined above,
and that's indicated by this first argument.
The second argument is the name of the test.
The test name tells you which function is being tested,
so you can refer back to these tests as you are developing your project.
The code written in these tests can also be helpful
to see how the different objects and methods in the code work.
So be sure to look over the tests carefully and
refer back to them from time to time as you are writing your code.
For example, we can see that a start node has
a neighbor's vector and it's accessed using this arrow pointer.
Here, we see that the vector is stored as neighbors and then,
the size of neighbors is checked to be equal to four.
If that's what expect EQ does here.
If the size of the neighbors is not equal to four, this test fails.
You can see here other functions or methods are tested down here.
So you can see for example,
that a node has a parent and that parent is set
to a start node and end node has a parent,
that's set to mid node and then,
some tests are performed.
Going back to the top level directory,
you'll see a third-party directory here.
This directory contains two git submodules, googletests and pugixml.
Pugixml is a library for parsing XML
that is used to read OpenStreetMap data into your program.
These numbers here to the right of the sub-module name are
the commits where these submodules are being pulled from.
So we're pulling the googletest code at commit given by this hash.
When you clone this repo using the recurrence submodules flag,
the code for a Google test and pugixml will be
pulled into your cloned repo so that you can use them in your program.
Back at the top level of this directory,
there are few other files that you'll need to know about.
There's the CMakeLists.txt and this is used for building this entire project,
and then, a map osm file,
which is the OpenStreetMap data for the project.
Let's have a look at CMakeLists.txt.
This CMakeLists is a little bit bigger than
CMake lists that you've seen previously so let's go over it line by line.
The first line here,
CMake minimum required sets the minimum required version of CMake to 3.11.3.
Which means you'll need at least that version to compile and run the project.
The next line sets the CMake standard to 17.
So we'll be using C++ 17 to build this project.
This line sets the CMake module path to the current CMake module path plus
the source directory which is where the CMakeLists.txt lives, slash CMake.
So if you recall,
the current directory slash CMake is where those two files were.
We can go back really quick in here,
and that helps CMakeLists.txt find these two libraries.
On line nine, we named the project as OSM a star search.
So CMakeLists.txt requires you to name each project in the top-level directory.
So we just named the project OSM A star search.
Then, we set the library output path to be the source directory slash lib.
So as libraries are built when this code is compiled,
they'll all get put in this slash lib folder.
The next lines find required project prerequisites.
So you need io2d to run this project.
You need Cairo, you need GraphicsMagick,
and find package finds each of these packages in your system.
Find package uses the CMake module path to find those packages.
As we saw before,
we set CMake module path to include the CMake source directory,
CMake, which provides those two CMake files for finding Cairo and GraphicsMagick.
In lines 20 and 21,
we set io2d to be compiled without
samples and without tests to speed up the build process a little bit.
Then, our project contains those third party pugixml and googletests libraries.
So we add those as subdirectories so that CMakeLists.txt is able to find them.
Then finally, we create the executable OSM A star search.
So this executable is created with all of these files that follow it.
So we're going to use source main.cpp, source model.cpp,
source render.cpp, source route model.cpp,
and source route planner.cpp to create this executable.
For this executable, we will also link the library's io2d and pugixml.
So this is the name of the executable and down here,
in the target link libraries,
we say that we want to use this target and link the library's io2d and pugixml.
Normally, this would be the end of a CMakeLists.txt file except that we
also want to build an executable that allows us to run the unit tests.
So we do this again, test,
except this time we're going to have to include the unit test
rp a A star search.cpp and the necessary files from our source directory.
You'll note that in this executable,
we don't include render or main since we don't need those.
We won't need main to accept user input and for the unit tests,
we're not doing any rendering.
For this test executable,
we've linked the library's gtest main,
which is from Google Test and pugixml.
Then, these last lines set some options for Linux or Microsoft Visual C++.
If you're using Linux,
we target the link libraries for OSM A star search to use pthread
and target some compile options for Microsoft Visual C++ down here at the end.
That is an overview of all of the files
that you'll need to know about in the top-level directory and next,
we'll go over all of the files that you'll need to know about in Source.